README.md, before:

# M365AutoLink
M365AutoLink automatically finds all Microsoft Teams and SharePoint sites you have access to and creates shortcuts to them in your OneDrive, making them available in your file explorer.

![M365AutoLink Demo](M365AutoLink.gif)

# Features
- **Saves Time**: Instantly links all your collaborative spaces to your OneDrive.
- **Organization**: Creates a dedicated folder (default: "AutoLink") in your OneDrive root for all shortcuts.
- **Silent Operation**: Caches authentication tokens so subsequent runs can happen silently in the background.
- **Smart Filtering**: Includes configuration to exclude specific site patterns (e.g. personal sites).

# Usage

## Quick Start
1. Download the script [`M365AutoLink.ps1`](https://github.com/jflieben/M365AutoLink/blob/main/M365AutoLink.ps1).
2. [Grant Consent](https://login.microsoftonline.com/organizations/adminconsent?client_id=ae7727e4-0471-4690-b155-76cbf5fdcb30) to the SSO app registration
3. Open a PowerShell terminal (PowerShell 5.x or 7.x).
4. Run the script: 
   ```powershell
   .\M365AutoLink.ps1
   ```
5. Wait for the Onedrive client to sync down the new links

## Configuration
You can edit the `##########START CONFIGURATION##########` block at the top of the script to customize:
- `$FolderName`: The name of the folder created in OneDrive (Default: "AutoLink").
- `$excludedSitesByWildcard`: Patterns for sites to skip.
- `$includedSitesByWildcard`: Patterns for sites to include.
- `$maxFileCount`: Only create a link if the site has less than this amount of files
- `$minFileCount`: Only create a link if the site has more than this amount of files

Note that if you disable indexing of a site, it will not be included irrespective of above filtering.
![Excluded from Search](excludefromsearch.png)


# Authentication & Permissions
The script uses Microsoft Graph APIs to discover sites and create shortcuts. 

## Automatic App Registration (easiest)
You can consent to the "Lieben Consultancy" multi-tenant app:
[Grant Consent](https://login.microsoftonline.com/organizations/adminconsent?client_id=ae7727e4-0471-4690-b155-76cbf5fdcb30)

These are delegated permissions only, and thus 100% safe.

![Graph Permissions](graphpermissions.png)

## Manual App Registration
If you don't want to use my app registration, you can create your own App Registration in Azure AD:
1. Create a new App Registration ("Mobile and desktop applications").
2. Set Redirect URI to `http://localhost`.
3. Check the box for: https://login.microsoftonline.com/common/oauth2/nativeclient
4. Enable "Allow public client flows".
5. Replace the `$ClientID` variable in the script with your new Application (Client) ID.
6. Add and grant the permissions shown below

## Required Permissions
The script requires the following delegated permissions to function:

Graph:
- `Files.ReadWrite.All`: To create shortcuts in OneDrive.
- `Sites.Read.All`: To find SharePoint sites you have access to.
- `User.Read`: To allow user access.

Sharepoint:
- `AllSites.Read`: To get metadata of existing links

Your app registration's permissions should look like this:
![Graph Permissions](requiredpermissions.png)

# Copyright/License
https://www.lieben.nu/liebensraum/commercial-use/
(Commercial (re)use not allowed without prior written consent by the author, otherwise free to use/modify as long as headers are kept intact)

# Support / Risk
Support at best-effort, use at your own risk.
When reporting issues here on GitHub, please include `lastRun.log` from `%APPDATA%\M365AutoLink\`.

# Author
Jos Lieben (https://www.lieben.nu)

Commit message:

remove bug and update readme

README.md, after:

# M365AutoLink
M365AutoLink automatically finds all Microsoft Teams and SharePoint sites you have access to and creates shortcuts to them in your OneDrive, making them available in your file explorer.

![M365AutoLink Demo](M365AutoLink.gif)

# Features
- **Saves Time**: Instantly links all your collaborative spaces to your OneDrive.
- **Organization**: Creates a dedicated folder (default: "AutoLink") in your OneDrive root for all shortcuts.
- **Silent Operation**: Caches authentication tokens so subsequent runs can happen silently in the background.
- **Smart Filtering**: Includes configuration to exclude specific site patterns (e.g. personal sites).

# Usage

## Quick Start
1. Download the script [`M365AutoLink.ps1`](https://github.com/jflieben/M365AutoLink/blob/main/M365AutoLink.ps1).
2. [Grant Consent](https://login.microsoftonline.com/organizations/adminconsent?client_id=ae7727e4-0471-4690-b155-76cbf5fdcb30) to the SSO app registration
3. Open a PowerShell terminal (PowerShell 5.x or 7.x).
4. Run the script: 
   ```powershell
   .\M365AutoLink.ps1
   ```
5. Wait for the Onedrive client to sync down the new links

## Configuration
You can edit the `##########START CONFIGURATION##########` block at the top of the script to customize:
- `$FolderName`: The name of the folder created in OneDrive (Default: "AutoLink").
- `$excludedSitesByWildcard`: Patterns for sites to skip.
- `$includedSitesByWildcard`: Patterns for sites to include.
- `$maxFileCount`: Only create a link if the site has less than this amount of files
- `$minFileCount`: Only create a link if the site has more than this amount of files
- `$linkNameReplacements`: An array of find/replace patterns applied to shortcut names after creation (see below).

### Link Name Cleanup
By default, shortcuts are named after the library (e.g. "Documents"). You can automatically clean up these names using `$linkNameReplacements`. Each entry has a `Pattern` (text to find) and a `Replacement` (text to replace it with). Patterns are applied in order and the final name is trimmed.

Default configuration:
```powershell
$linkNameReplacements = @(
    @{ Pattern = " - Documents"; Replacement = "" }
    @{ Pattern = "- Documents"; Replacement = "" }
)
```
This turns a shortcut like `Marketing - Documents` into `Marketing`. Renaming is also applied to existing shortcuts on each run, so changing these patterns will update previously created shortcuts.

Note that if you disable indexing of a site, it will not be included irrespective of above filtering.
![Excluded from Search](excludefromsearch.png)


# Authentication & Permissions
The script uses Microsoft Graph APIs to discover sites and create shortcuts. 

## Automatic App Registration (easiest)
You can consent to the "Lieben Consultancy" multi-tenant app:
[Grant Consent](https://login.microsoftonline.com/organizations/adminconsent?client_id=ae7727e4-0471-4690-b155-76cbf5fdcb30)

These are delegated permissions only, and thus 100% safe.

![Graph Permissions](graphpermissions.png)

## Manual App Registration
If you don't want to use my app registration, you can create your own App Registration in Azure AD:
1. Create a new App Registration ("Mobile and desktop applications").
2. Set Redirect URI to `http://localhost`.
3. Check the box for: https://login.microsoftonline.com/common/oauth2/nativeclient
4. Enable "Allow public client flows".
5. Replace the `$ClientID` variable in the script with your new Application (Client) ID.
6. Add and grant the permissions shown below

## Required Permissions
The script requires the following delegated permissions to function:

Graph:
- `Files.ReadWrite.All`: To create shortcuts in OneDrive.
- `Sites.Read.All`: To find SharePoint sites you have access to.
- `User.Read`: To allow user access.

Sharepoint:
- `AllSites.Read`: To get metadata of existing links

Your app registration's permissions should look like this:
![Graph Permissions](requiredpermissions.png)

# Copyright/License
https://www.lieben.nu/liebensraum/commercial-use/
(Commercial (re)use not allowed without prior written consent by the author, otherwise free to use/modify as long as headers are kept intact)

# Support / Risk
Support at best-effort, use at your own risk.
When reporting issues here on GitHub, please include `lastRun.log` from `%APPDATA%\M365AutoLink\`.

# Author
Jos Lieben (https://www.lieben.nu)
